A door opened and closed in the passage behind her. A musty smell emerged. I regret I cannot do anything for you.
I've come here specially on the train. I wanted to talk to you for a moment. It is not convenient for me now, said the
woman. I can't see you. Another time.  She nodded and cautiously closed the door ad though no one inside the house should
be disturbed. I stood where I was on the step. The curtain in front of the bay window moved. Someone stared at me and
would then have asked what I wanted. Oh, nothing the woman would have said. It was nothing. I looked at the name-plate
again. Dorling it said, in black letters on white enamel. And on the jamb, bit higher, the number. Number 46.
As I walked slowly back to the station I thought about my mother, who had given me the address years ago. It had been in
struck me immediately that something or other about the rooms had changed. I missed various things. My mother was surprised
I should have noticed so quickly. Then she told me about Mrs Dorling. I had never heard of her but apparently she was an
old acquaintance of my mother, whom she hadn't seen for years. She had suddenly turned up and renewed their contact.
Since then she had come regularly. Every time she leaves here she takes something home with her, said my mother. She took
all the table silver in one go. And those large vases, and I'm worried she got a crick in her back from the crockery. My mother
shook in her back never have dard ask her. She suggested it to me herself. She even insisted. She wanted to save all my
nice things. If we have to leave here we shall lose everything, she says.
Have you agreed with her that she should keep everything? I asked.
As if that's necessary, my mother cried. It would simply be an insult to talk like that. And thind about the risk she's
running, each time she goes out of our door with a full suitcase or bag.


My mother seemed to notice that I was not entirely convinced. She looked at me reprovingly and after that we spoke no more about
it. Mean while I had arrived at the station without having paid much attention to things on the way. I was walking in familiar places
again for the first time since the War, but I did not want to go further than was necessary. I didn't want to upset myself with
the sight of streets and houses full of memories from a precious time. In the train back I saw Mrs Dorling in front of me again as I had the
first time I met her. It was the morning after the day my mother had told me about her. I had got up late and, coming
down stair, I saw my mother about to see someone out. W woman with a broad back. There is my daughter, said my mother. She beckoned
to me. The woman nodded and picked up the suitcase under the coad-rack. she wore a brown coat and a shapeless hat. Does she live
far away? I asked, seeing the difficult she had going out of the house with the heavy case. In Marconi Street, said my mother. Number 46.
Remember that.
I had remembered it. But I had waited a long time to go there. Initially after the Liberation I was absolutely not interested
in all that stored stuff, and naturally I was also rather afraid of it. Afraid of being confronted with things that thad belonged
to a connection that no longer existed; which were hidden away put back in their place again; which had endured all those
years because they were things. But gradually everything became more normal again. Bread was getting to be lighter colour, there
was a bed you could sleep in unthreated a room with a view you were more used about all the possession that must still be the
at that address. i wanted to see them, touch, remember. After my first visit in vain to Mrs Dorling's House I decided to
try a second time. Now girl of about fifteen opened the door to me. i asked her if her mother was at home.
No she said, my mother doing an errand. No matter I said, I'll wait for her.